CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

Contributing to sabre projects
==============================

Want to contribute to sabre/dav? Here are some guidelines to ensure your patch
gets accepted.


Building a new feature? Contact us first
----------------------------------------

We may not want to accept every feature that comes our way. Sometimes
features are out of scope for our projects.

We don't want to waste your time, so by having a quick chat with us first,
you may find out quickly if the feature makes sense to us, and we can give
some tips on how to best build the feature.

If we don't accept the feature, it could be for a number of reasons. For
instance, we've rejected features in the past because we felt uncomfortable
assuming responsibility for maintaining the feature.

In those cases, it's often possible to keep the feature separate from the
sabre projects. sabre/dav for instance has a plugin system, and there's no
reason the feature can't live in a project you own.

In that case, definitely let us know about your plugin as well, so we can
feature it on [sabre.io][4].

We are often on [IRC][5], in the #sabredav channel on freenode. If there's
no one there, post a message on the [mailing list][6].


Coding standards
----------------

sabre projects follow:

1. [PSR-1][1]
2. [PSR-4][2]

sabre projects don't follow [PSR-2][3].

In addition to that, here's a list of basic rules:

1. PHP 5.4 array syntax must be used every where. This means you use `[` and
   `]` instead of `array(` and `)`.
2. Use PHP namespaces everywhere.
3. Use 4 spaces for indentation.
4. Try to keep your lines under 80 characters. This is not a hard rule, as
   there are many places in the source where it felt more sensibile to not
   do so. In particular, function declarations are never split over multiple
   lines.
5. Opening braces (`{`) are _always_ on the same line as the `class`, `if`,
   `function`, etc. they belong to.
6. `public` must be omitted from method declarations. It must also be omitted
   for static properties.
7. All files should use unix-line endings (`\n`).
8. Files must omit the closing php tag (`?>`).
9. `true`, `false` and `null` are always lower-case.
10. Constants are always upper-case.
11. Any of the rules stated before may be broken where this is the pragmatic
    thing to do.


Unit test requirements
----------------------

Any new feature or change requires unittests. We use [PHPUnit][7] for all our
tests.

Adding unittests will greatly increase the likelyhood of us quickly accepting
your pull request. If unittests are not included though for whatever reason,
we'd still _love_ your pull request.

We may have to write the tests ourselves, which can increase the time it takes
to accept the patch, but we'd still really like your contribution!

To run the testsuite jump into the directory `cd tests` and trigger `phpunit`.
Make sure you did a `composer install` beforehand.

Release process
---------------

Generally, these are the steps taken to do releases.

1. Update the changelog. Every repo will have a `CHANGELOG.md` file. This file
   should have a new version, and contain all the changes since the last
   release. I generally run a `git diff` to figure out if I missed any changes.
   This file should also have the current date.
2. If there were BC breaks, this usually now means a major version bump.
3. Ensure that `lib/Version.php` or `lib/DAV/Version.php` also matches this
   version number.
4. Tag the release (Example `git tag 3.0.1` and push the tag (`git push --tags`).
5. (only for the sabre/dav project), create a zip distribution. Run
   `php bin/build.php`.
6. For the relevant project, go to github and click the 'releases' tab. On this
   tab I create the release with the relevant version. I also set the
   description of the release to the same information of the changelog. In the
   case of the `sabre/dav` project I also upload the zip distribution here.
7. Write a blog post on sabre.io. This also automatically updates twitter.


[1]: http://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-1/
[2]: http://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-4/
[3]: http://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-2/
[4]: http://sabre.io/
[5]: irc://freenode.net/#sabredav
[6]: http://groups.google.com/group/sabredav-discuss
[7]: http://phpunit.de/

Commit message:

Sort out unit tests that need a real server available

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

Contributing to sabre projects
==============================

Want to contribute to sabre/dav? Here are some guidelines to ensure your patch
gets accepted.


Building a new feature? Contact us first
----------------------------------------

We may not want to accept every feature that comes our way. Sometimes
features are out of scope for our projects.

We don't want to waste your time, so by having a quick chat with us first,
you may find out quickly if the feature makes sense to us, and we can give
some tips on how to best build the feature.

If we don't accept the feature, it could be for a number of reasons. For
instance, we've rejected features in the past because we felt uncomfortable
assuming responsibility for maintaining the feature.

In those cases, it's often possible to keep the feature separate from the
sabre projects. sabre/dav for instance has a plugin system, and there's no
reason the feature can't live in a project you own.

In that case, definitely let us know about your plugin as well, so we can
feature it on [sabre.io][4].

We are often on [IRC][5], in the #sabredav channel on freenode. If there's
no one there, post a message on the [mailing list][6].


Coding standards
----------------

sabre projects follow:

1. [PSR-1][1]
2. [PSR-4][2]

sabre projects don't follow [PSR-2][3].

In addition to that, here's a list of basic rules:

1. PHP 5.4 array syntax must be used everywhere. This means you use `[` and
   `]` instead of `array(` and `)`.
2. Use PHP namespaces everywhere.
3. Use 4 spaces for indentation.
4. Try to keep your lines under 80 characters. This is not a hard rule, as
   there are many places in the source where it felt more sensible to not
   do so. In particular, function declarations are never split over multiple
   lines.
5. Opening braces (`{`) are _always_ on the same line as the `class`, `if`,
   `function`, etc. they belong to.
6. `public` must be omitted from method declarations. It must also be omitted
   for static properties.
7. All files should use unix-line endings (`\n`).
8. Files must omit the closing php tag (`?>`).
9. `true`, `false` and `null` are always lower-case.
10. Constants are always upper-case.
11. Any of the rules stated before may be broken where this is the pragmatic
    thing to do.


Unit test requirements
----------------------

Any new feature or change requires unit tests. We use [PHPUnit][7] for all our
tests.

Adding unittests will greatly increase the likelihood of us quickly accepting
your pull request. If unittests are not included though for whatever reason,
we'd still _love_ your pull request.

We may have to write the tests ourselves, which can increase the time it takes
to accept the patch, but we'd still really like your contribution!

To run the unit tests locally:
1. `composer install`
2. start a PHP dev server in a separate terminal: `php -S localhost:8000 -t vendor/sabre/http/tests/www`
3. `composer phpunit`

Release process
---------------

Generally, these are the steps taken to do releases.

1. Update the changelog. Every repo will have a `CHANGELOG.md` file. This file
   should have a new version, and contain all the changes since the last
   release. I generally run a `git diff` to figure out if I missed any changes.
   This file should also have the current date.
2. If there were BC breaks, this usually now means a major version bump.
3. Ensure that `lib/DAV/Version.php` also matches this version number.
4. Tag the release (Example `git tag 3.0.1` and push the tag (`git push --tags`)).
5. (only for the sabre/dav project), create a zip distribution. Run
   `php bin/build.php`.
6. For the relevant project, go to GitHub and click the 'releases' tab. On this
   tab I create the release with the relevant version. I also set the
   description of the release to the same information of the changelog. In the
   case of the `sabre/dav` project I also upload the zip distribution here.
7. Write a blog post on sabre.io. This also automatically updates twitter.


[1]: http://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-1/
[2]: http://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-4/
[3]: http://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-2/
[4]: http://sabre.io/
[5]: irc://freenode.net/#sabredav
[6]: http://groups.google.com/group/sabredav-discuss
[7]: http://phpunit.de/
